Alright! In this video, we're going to
take a look at content negotiation
inside of Spring. You get under the
covers a little bit here. What's
happening, just as a refresher, this is a
slide that we had earlier in the course
about Spring MVC. This is specific to
Spring MVC. But underneath the covers, we
have something very similar happening in
the WebFlux framework, but we just don't
have the Dispatcher Servlet and we
don't have a server at all in WebFlux.
But here, what's going on just recap
what's happening in this context, and
again, it's very similar for WebFlux. The
same flow is happening so the
components are different. We have a
client request. So this is from some type
of web client. It's going to come in and
get handled by the Dispatcher Servlet,
and through a handler mapping, we are
going to determine which controller method
to use. So, that's Controller. It's going
to handle that request, and chances are,
like in a get request, we're going to be
asking for a list of data from the
backend database, for example. So, we're
going to go out to service and get that
data. That is going to be returned back
as a model there. You can see that small
box, a model, which is just a POJO, a
simple Java data structure. So, that's all
inside of the JVM running his Java
objects. This is going back to the
Dispatcher Servlet. Now, a Servlet is
responsible for providing the view.
So far in the course, we've only looked
at a single view, like early on, we were
looking at Thymeleaf to render HTML. As
we got into some of the REST stuff, we were
using JSON, and underneath the covers of
that, we were using Jackson. So, Jackson
was taking that Java model, that Java
POJO and converting it into JSON for us
and vice versa. I was taking JSON and
converting it over to a Java object for
us. And somewhere, was happening with
Thymeleaf, we're Thymeleaf was taking a
Thymeleaf template and combining it in
with the model object, the data that we
got back to generate HTML for us. Now,
there are additional capabilities that
we have not looked at, and that is to
allow the client to specify the content
that he wants,
or she, the client can ask for HTML JSON
or XML. So, there's a number of different
use case scenarios here that allows it.
So, we've only been looking at a singular
view, but to implement that, what Spring
has provided us is a bean called a
ContentNegotiatingViewResolver. Now,
I'm going to take a closer look at that
now.
Now, a ContentNegotiatingViewResolver,
that is going to be used by Spring MVC
to determine which view to use. So, are we
going to render JSON? Are we going to render
XML? Are we're going to render HTML? It could
even be a PDF, a spreadsheet, CSV. So,
there's a number of handlers that we can
wire in here, and this view resolver is
going to be Auto configurable for us by
Spring Boot now. We were not using Spring
Boot. It would be up to us to provide a
ContentNegotiatingViewResolver. I know
the important thing to remember is that
this is determining which view to use
based on the content type. That content
type, that is actually a property inside
the HTTP header. So, we looked at some of
the HTTP requests earlier. That is in
the header, and basically the content
type is in the HTTP protocol. It's the
way for the client to say, I want Jason
or I want XML or I want HTML. So, that's
part of HTTP standard and protocol for
the client to do that. So, I think there's
over a dozen of them that are in the
spec. I'm only looking at a handful here
and these are some of the more popular
ones and we're going to be looking at in
this section of the course of
implementing the XML view. So, our REST
client will be able to say, I want Jason
or I want to consume XML. Now, if the
client requests like PDF, for example, if
we don't have that configured, we are
going to return back or Spring is
going to return back an HTTP status of
406 not acceptable. So, that's a way
to let the client know, 'Hey, you asked for
this
type of content and I don't have it'.
I'm going to show you that now and jump
over to intelligent take a quick look at
that.
Okay, I actually up on the screen here, I
have the ContentNegotiatingViewResolver up. I want to show you here
on line 334, that is
saying getBestView. So, this is
going to come in. We're getting requestedMediaTypes. It's going to go through
there, and really effectively, what's
happening here, that's right here. This is
an important part. Now, we're going to return
back. We're going to try to find
the best available view. So, we can have
multiple views in here. So, let's take a
quick look at the view object. So, here's
the interface and View, and we can see,
this is just the interface. But, let's
take a quick look at the implementations
of it. So, here's the Jackson. So here's
the Jackson View. So we implemented
AbstractJackson2View, and ultimately, it
does implement the View interface.
This is basically the View, and you
can see here on line 68, I'm saying my
default content-type for this View is
application Jason. And so, when this is on
the path or in the Spring Context, which
it will be if we have Jackson
implemented. Spring Boot is automatically
going to provide us an instance of this
view inside the Spring Context. It's
going to come in and say, 'Oh, I'm going to use
this and handle that with Jackson'. Now,
what you don't see here is I don't have
Thymeleaf in this project. If I did, I
would have a Thymeleaf view. That would
get automatically wired by Spring.
So typically, with Spring Boot, it is going
to be making the sensible defaults for
us or sensible decisions for us. So, if
we include Thymeleaf, we will have a Thymeleaf
View Handler in there. If we include
something to handle XML, which you are
going to see coming up in the course,
we'll be able to render XML, but we do not,
so right now, I'll show you how we get a
406 return, and ultimately, if
it falls through this logic,
this is a view that's getting back,
getting returned. It's going to
return back in this. So, if we come in
here, you can see that is a 406.
So, that is returning back a HTTP 406.
That sounds, and that's working
underneath the covers. So, coming up in
future videos here, your are going to see how to
wire up XML and get XML being
returned back to the client rather than
JSON.